# cs465-fullstack
CS-465 Full Stack Development with MEAN

Architecture
Compare and contrast the types of frontend development you used in your full stack project, including Express HTML, JavaScript, and the single-page application (SPA).
Why did the backend use a NoSQL MongoDB database?
On the frontend, we used express HTML for the GUI, as well as Javascript and JSON for the single-page application (SPA). Development using express HTML required quite a bit more testing since it was obvious something looks wrong when coded in bad HTML. Finding the problem was much easier in HTML than in Javascrip or JSON, however Postman endpoint API testing made seeing the results and testing the latter siginificantly more straightforward. The backend used a noSQL mongoDB database as middleware that facilitating modifying the trips within the application. Middleware is essential to implementing the coding tasks. If the middleware were not present, we would have to develop the coding tasks for ourself within the application. This not only extends the development process but also massively increases the cost of production. The use of middleware provides us with the ability to use an existing set of processes while coding a route for querying and a route for the response which we can provide to a user.

Functionality
How is JSON different from Javascript and how does JSON tie together the frontend and backend development pieces?
Provide instances in the full stack process when you refactored code to improve functionality and efficiencies, and name the benefits that come from reusable user interface (UI) components.
JSON is a format for storing and transporting data not unlike collections. When used in tandem with Javascript we can tie the frontend and backend together by allowing a user to send data to the back end through their interactions on the front end. This data would be a user's tasks such as adding or modifying trips.
An example within the fullstack process where I refactored code for efficiency and functionality is when I removed the JSON references while adding the security to allow a user to add and edit trips. When the security was added, adding and editing trips was no longer functional due to version issues and another method was required. 
Some benefits of the reusable UI components is that I do not need to hard-code more trips. In addition, a user can also add trips to the database and my reusable UI components will effciently and effectively display the new trip for a user to interact with.

Testing
Methods for request and retrieval necessitate various types of API testing of endpoints, in addition to the difficulties of testing with added layers of security. Explain your understanding of methods, endpoints, and security in a full stack application.
My understanding of methods, endpoints, and security in a fullstack application is that endpoints are left open for particualar requests, methods are used to fulfill those requests, and security is weaved throughout the endpoints and security to mark those that are allowed to make those requests (For example, those logged in with an account). Security is the most difficult because all of the corresponding methods that need security must be modified to check for that authentication as well as more methods are required to change views in response. A specific example in the travlr SPA is removing the add and edit buttons from view for those that are not signed in. 

Reflection
How has this course helped you in reaching your professional goals? What skills have you learned, developed, or mastered in this course to help you become a more marketable candidate in your career field?
This course has helped me in reaching my professional goals by providing me with new skills and experience I did not have. It also is one of the last stepping stones for my current degree, allowing me more accessability to my professional goals. The specific skills I learned is how to do frontend and backend development. Prior to this course I had never made code in two parts that interract with each other, and I have always been curious as to what order that development would go, or if another person was needed. This may help me be a more marketable candidate in my career field of computer science since I have this experience and will be faster at picking it back up again should I be requested to do more work with frontends and backends.
